# fortify-ant-project
Java project that can be build using an Ant build file

The java project is called EntryToLog.  This project simply allows the user to enter a string in order to guess the password it holds.  Typing the wrong string informs the user that the string is not the password and the application asks for another entry.It also sends a message to the application log telling the user this.  This continues until the entry made is the password saved, at which case the user is informed of this and the application sends a message to the same application log.  The program closes after this.  

The EntryToLog project is comprised of 4 files: the EntryToLog class file (EntryToLog.java), the EntryToLog main class that contains the password (EntryToLogRunner.java), the JUnit test class (EntryToLogTest.java) and the JUnit test runner (TestRunner.java).  The logging library used for this Java project is Log4j (specifically, Log4j 2.13.3).  The Log4j libraries that are pulled from the Maven central repository "repository.sonatype.org" are log4j-api and log4j-core jar files.  The configuration file "log4j2.xml" and the properties file "log4j2.properties", both of which are used to create and format the log file "application.log",are found in the "src/resources" directory and are copied in the "build/classes" directory to be packaged in a jar file (along with the class files and the log4j dependencies). 

The compilation, testing, execution, packaging, and publishing of the Jave project is performed by the Ant build file "build.xml".  If you want the whole process to run "ant clean".  The process starts by creating the necessary directories (like "/lib") and pulls dependencies to the lib directory from several remote repositories in Artifactory (lib-releases, lib-releases2, etc).  Then, the java files in the src directory are compiled and the class files that result (as well as the log4j2 properties and configuration files) are copied in the "build/classes" directory.  The class files are then tested.  The JUnit test checks if one of the methods in EntryToLogRunner.java works properly.  After the test passes, the java project is run.  This is the only part of the project that requires a user input.  Be sure to type in "OpenSesame!" to keep the build process going.  Finally, the project is packaged in a jar file (along with the dependencies and log4j2 files) and the jar file is published to Artifactory.

On Artifactory, installation was not necessarily needed.  JFrog gave me a free instance that I can work with.  It took a while for my instance to be online, but as soon as it was so, I was able to add all types of repositories.  The only local repository created for this project was "fortify-java-project".  The remote repositories that took the dependencies from various Maven central repositories are lib-release, lib-releases2, lib-releases3, and lib-releases4.  Finally, there is one virtual repository that contains all of those remote repositories called "lib-releases-virtual".  The ivysettings.xml file contains a chain resolver that enables Ant to pull dependencies from that virtual repository and a URL one to publish the jar file to Artifactory.

Note: to run the program via the jar file, just extract the files using the command "jar -xf fortify-ant-project.jar" then run "java -jar fortify-ant-project.jar".
